Okay.
So the last two tools I wanna show you
are sort and unique.
So what sort would do is take a stream of
file or the text and it will sort it alphanumerically
and unique will find the unique lines
and strip away all the duplicates,
but also very handy for counting the number of times
a particular line or a particular word occurs.
So an example of this combining this thing together using
tail dash f which we saw in the previous video.
I will, on a web log,
I will tail a log
and then I will grab for a specific
either an IP address
or typically a URL
that's being accessed on a website.
I will then
pass this into another string manipulation programme
called Cut or another one called Orch,
which would just give me the IP address.
I will then sort all those and then get the unique count
so I can see which IP address is hitting
a particular URL the most.
So that might sound complicated,
but once you know
how each little tool works,
you can compose these more complicated kind of commands
to kind of do a bit of
either data manipulation or data science
to understand or look at
some file or some data in a particular way.
Now,
kind of reversing back,
looking at the freezing tweets that I've been collecting,
I've stopped the feed now.
And this is just a snapshot of the tweets
containing the hashtag freezing.
So what I wanna do is I'm gonna start
by grabbing for the retweets.
So I'm gonna use the egrep
that we saw in the previous video.
I'm gonna be searching for retweets
so this means starts with
the line begins with some spaces one or more times
and then retweet
then at symbol,
just because the format that it's capturing is tweeting
and if I run that,
I should find all the retweets
or the recent retweet statements.
And what I'm looking for is the most popular
retweet during that period.
So we have our egrep
and we can less to check that out.
So it's not very many but it's enough.
And what I'm gonna do is run that into
unique just to start off with.
If I run that,
we're just gonna count the lines just to be sure.
So if I do wc, I've got 19 lines, okay?
If I get rid of the
unique,
I still got 24.
But are we really sure that we have
24 unique or 19 unique
retweets?
It just, kind of eyeballing it,
I'd say that there's less than that.
And now the reason for this
is because unique
will only count the unique lines next to each other.
It's kind of bit weird like that.
But if I do,
I think the sequence will give me
time?
Yeah.
So if I...
This isn't quite right.
I want to kind of...
I'll make a quick demo file that has a few lines
and you'll see the problem.
So I'm just gonna pause you for a moment and come back.
So I have this demo file.
I'll just show you the contents of it.
So it's one, two, three, three, four, and so on.
Some of the
lines,
some of the duplicates are next to each other, some aren't.
So we have one here,
we have the number one here and here again.
So if we cat that file,
then we enter unique,
what you'll see is
that we still have the one and two
but the three now only appears once,
whereas it was twice before.
Four, one, two, three,
and then the three here where it was duplicated,
it's also been removed.
So the problem is it only
gives us unique lines that are next to each other.
So we have to sort the lines.
So we just pipe into sort
and it's sorting it out alphabetically.
It doesn't matter that they're numbers.
And from there, if we pass it into unique,
we can now see
that there are
four unique strings.
One of them is four, one, two, and three.
F.
And we can also count them.
So dash c gives a count.
So
we
can see that four goes once,
the number one occurs three times,
and four times for the word three,
and twice for two.
And we can pipe that back into sort to get a numerical sort.
Now if
there's 10, it's an alphanumeric sort.
We need to do by numbers.
In this instance, it doesn't make any difference.
But if we have more than 10 lines
in an alphanumeric search,
10 is
less than two
because it's the one at the beginning,
so we just do sort dash n.
If we wanna reverse that, we can do dash r,
so numerical reversal
so the most popular is at the top.
So now applying that to our
egrep,
what we do is we'll sort the lines
and then we'll do unique.
And now, if we just pipe that into wc,
you see we have seven unique tweets.
So if I do a count,
it's a bit of a mess in the screen,
let's just clear that up.
So we got four for this particular tweet,
two, three,
10 for this one.
So assuming these were kind of like
an hour's worth of captured tweets,
we would then pipe that into
sort dash n,
dash r,
or I typically do is pipe that string to less
and I'm able to page through.
So now at the very top,
I can see the most popular tweet
and I can then go up and down and work
my way through all of the tweets.
So here we have
egrep to grab out just the
line that we want.
Now if this was a live feed,
at the beginning I might do a tail dash f,
freezing,
then pipe that into egrep,
and then
we would do a sort.
It gets a bit hairy when we're going kind of
following a file.
If you're trying to do lots of sorts
and kind of manipulations of the pipes,
it can stop working.
So
in most cases, it will work.
But if you find nothing's coming out
and you're expecting output,
I would break,
get rid of some of the items in the stream
and maybe look at just capturing some of that into a file.
So, like I said, going back,
cat-ing the file out, run it through the egrep,
piping it into sort,
doing unique count on that,
list those lines.
Then we're sorting numerically in a reverse order
and then we're piping it into less
so we can go ahead and page through.
So there you can see kind of
lots of those little commands being
connected to each other using the pipe
and lots of string manipulation
and filtering going on
to get to find what we're looking for.